[music]
>> I never expected I'd be part of a Ponzi.
I never expected [music] to lose money.
When you fantasize, you know, you
fantasize about well, maybe I can buy a
bigger house or maybe I can send my kids
to private school and do things that
you know, you normally wouldn't do.
But that made the pain more hard [music]
at the end.
He said, "Save, save, save. We are going
gangbusters." [music] This is all fake.
>> [laughter]
>> Think like
everything is fictitious. This is a
story about a series [music]
of crimes that could have easily been
prevented. When I found out that Eli
Weinstein had done this before and his
sentence was commuted by President
[music] Trump, I was livid. Mr.
Weinstein was given the ultimate second
chance and he squandered that
opportunity and he squandered it
quickly. What we have seen around the
Trump administration is this feverish
[music] pardon market. We're seeing
white-collar lawyers who charge huge
amounts per hour. Weinstein was found
guilty in 2025. [music]
Our reporting suggests that he is also
trying to build a team to fight for a
second [music] commutation.
They look at the elected officials to
seek pardons and then
potentially do it again. We're living in
[music] a crazy time that Trump is doing
whatever he wants and nobody seems to be
able to stop him.
It was financially and emotionally
the most difficult year of my life. When
people lose it all, it's it's
>> [music]
>> it's very damaging.
The community here is a tight-knit
community really focusing on family
values.
A lot of the church [music] members that
that I know today are are families that
I
seen my entire life. I grew up with
them.
During COVID, one
>> [music]
>> member of our community, one of my best
friends at that point in time, Richard,
approached me at the end of the 2021 to
discuss some potential business
opportunities with masks [music] selling
from Turkey to Israel.
The church as a as a whole always talks
about, you know, giving back and living
for the sake of others.
Richard insisted that he has this
contact and Mike Konig was the name that
he eventually named dropped to me. And
this guy was a legend in his sphere.
He apparently knows people in the FDA.
He knows [music] people at NATO.
The initial deal was for 25% in 3
months. When he
gave me that interest payment, he also
talked about there's another opportunity
and he spoke with a lot of excitement
and compassion and he was like, "Let's
let's do this again." Richard was
persistent on asking for more and more.
He would even encourage people to borrow
money and invest it into him and Mike.
It's like, "Wow, I mean, who is this
Mike Konig? If he knows so many people
and if he knows so many people, why does
he need me
with my money?"
A slew of pardons, nearly 150 pardons
and commutations for a host of powerful
and and famous people.
Eli Weinstein is one of the people that
Donald Trump granted clemency to in the
final days of his first term. Weinstein
was 8 years [music] into a 24-year
prison sentence having been convicted
for running a Ponzi-like scheme. Pardon,
clemency, [music] commutation they're
often used interchangeably. A pardon is
a kind of carte blanche forgiveness.
You're forgiven of the crime. [music] A
commutation is you are freed from
prison, but you still face probation and
restitution.
Mr. Weinstein was released in January
2021. And at trial it came out that by
July of 2021,
he had spoken about starting a new
scheme.
Eli Weinstein wouldn't have been [music]
able to perpetrate this
Ponzi scheme were it not for him [music]
treating alias that had none of his
track record with the law. So, to many
people including the co-conspirators, he
was [music] known by the name Mike
Konig. At the time, we were still in the
COVID era and [music] it seemed like a
lucrative opportunity. And through his
network, he found Richard Curry and
Chris Anderson. They said that Mike
Konig [music]
was someone that had connections in the
Middle East and Turkey and Israel and
[music] knew a lot about medical
supplies deals. Victims testified at
trial that part of why they wanted
[music] to invest here was because not
only were they getting a great return on
their profit, but they were doing
something good for the world.
>> [singing]
>> I'm Deirdre VerVo and I own and operate
Just Like Home. They are residential
memory care homes for seniors with
dementia.
>> [applause]
>> I MET CHRIS Anderson seven-ish years
ago. He presented himself as a very
ethical person. He had called and said
he came across an amazing
opportunity to buy masks.
My fiance and I both initially invested
$200,000
and were to get back 12% after 3 months.
And he asked us if we want to roll it
into the next deal. So, we just kept
rolling it in and adding more money to
it.
Eli Weinstein was the puppet master. And
he was really the one making it possible
for this Ponzi scheme to continue.
There was loads and loads of photos and
videos of boxes being packed, supply
lines occurring in many parts of the
world. What has become clear throughout
the trial is much of that was entirely
fabricated. It is so important that we
get a assembly line sweatshop [music]
showing that we have this FAQ product.
It doesn't need to be anything fancy. It
just needs showing there's a enormous
amount of product.
The goal of these emails was to keep us
investing with them. Cuz he kept asking
for more money.
We couldn't have gotten here without
you. The fund is designed [music] so
that you, our friends and families, can
continue to participate in a more
significant and long-term way. It's
crazy reading this back and seeing all
[laughter] the
how many lies he made up.
Before I let my mom invest or my kids, I
said to him, "Are you absolutely
certain? This is my mom. She's 86 years
old. These are my kids." And he said,
[music] "Save, save, save. We are going
gangbusters."
The essential [music] parts of Ponzi
scheme is a fund manager using money
that they're [music] getting in from new
investors to pay old investors. And
those old investors think the money that
they're [music] receiving is from
investments.
So, Weinstein and his co-conspirators
were having a fair old time partying
with investor money, [music] spending it
on private jets, on gambling at casinos.
They were even spent money on a very
garish penthouse [music]
in Florida. With any Ponzi scheme, it's
always kind of functioning [music] on
the brink of destruction. At some point,
it was going to come tumbling down.
They didn't know that Mike Konig was
actually Eli Weinstein, but they started
to get breadcrumbs [music]
of clues. They were having difficulty uh
making the math add up. They then
convened this kind of meeting with
Weinstein and other co-conspirators
[music]
where they confront him and say, "Hey,
you know, what's your real name?" And
[music] Weinstein confesses. Unbeknownst
to Weinstein, they were secretly [music]
recording him. I lied
about who I was. Every day they beat me
up doesn't justify it. And I misled you
and lied about transactions.
Recordings are
really crucial evidence of intent of of
what Eli Weinstein was thinking.
I put the label on Ponzi and lied to
people to cover us for our deals. You
know they're legit. He admitted that he
had been lying, that he had been
pretending to be Mike Konig and he
attempted to convince Curry and Anderson
to continue raising money, to continue
with the supposed deals [music]
in order to keep them at bay, to prevent
them from going to the authorities. They
all decide to [music] kind of keep calm
and carry on with the
with the conspiracy.
However, running a scheme like this can
affect [music]
your behavior and what investors started
to notice was a change in mood from
Chris [music] Anderson and Richard
Curry. And for a lot of the investors,
this was a sign that [music] something
may be going wrong.
Year after we started investing in
January, our group went on a marketers
[music] cruise.
I liked Chris. Chris also had two kids
that I knew and his wife. We get on the
cruise and he's acting very odd. We knew
him for 5 years not to drink, smoke.
[music]
Now he's drinking. He's like
flirting with women and he asks on the
cruise his wife for a divorce
in the middle of our
cruise.
And he was also regaling us with crazy
stories. He's talking about people at
gunpoint in taxi cabs, how he [music]
had to play catch with a dead horse's
head.
And I was like so appalled and then it
turned out that he wasn't paying anybody
back. and then it was shortly after
[music] that we found out that there was
bad things going on with
Eli Weinstein [music] and him and
yeah, and then he refused to talk to
anybody.
As the Ponzi scheme starts to get more
and more unwieldy, investors start
threatening litigation [music]
and then Corey and Anderson receive a
subpoena from the SEC and it's at this
point they decide to go to US
prosecutors and cut [music] a plea deal.
I found out that Mike Konitz was was Eli
Weinstein when the media documented the
arrest of Weinstein and that Mike was
Weinstein the whole time.
You would figure that your best friend
would tell you that the whole thing is a
Ponzi but it unfortunately came out
through the media.
The evidence in this case
for a white-collar case was strong and
the jury thought that that intent was
clearly to deceive investors of their
money.
In 2025, [music] Weinstein was found
guilty but that isn't where the story
ends.
One person that I've spoken to for my
reporting [music] says that Weinstein
has been reaching out to people asking
if they'd even consider working on his
bid for [music] a pardon. This would be
quite extraordinary.
Trump's critics will argue that what
[music] he has done is discarded a
deliberative, sometimes multi-year long
[music] process of pardoning in favor of
a more ad hoc system of pay-to-play, one
that overtly rewards allies and
undermines [music]
the criminal justice system in favor of
those with wealth and [music] access
regardless of the seriousness of their
crimes. The White House has denied such
allegations.
Though President Joe Biden [music] was
criticized by many Republicans for
preemptively pardoning members of the
military, of Congress and his own family
[music] who Trump had pledged to target
once in office, the bulk of Biden's
clemency [music] actions followed
established norms.
Trump really set the tone on his first
day in office when he announced that he
was granting mass clemency to more than
1,500 defendants charged [music] in
connection with the January 6th riots.
So this is January 6th,
>> [music]
>> approximately 1,500
for a pardon.
Yes. Full pardon. Two months after
[music] Trump took office, the pardon
attorney for the Justice Department, Liz
Oyer, was fired and [music] at the same
time Trump has installed someone he was
very close to, a conservative lawyer
named Ed Martin. The pardon power is now
being totally and thoroughly politicized
[music]
that it will be used as a benefit to
those who [music] are supporters of the
president and not for those who do not
express political [music] loyalty. In
2025, Trump has granted pardons to a
catalog of high-profile figures. They
include Republican politician [music]
George Santos, crypto entrepreneur
Changpeng Zhao and there are reports of
[music] other people in the public eye
exploring whether clemency is a viable
option for them. [music] They include
Sam Bankman-Fried and Ghislaine Maxwell.
She was convicted of child sex
trafficking. Yeah, I mean I'm going to
have to take a look at it. I'd have to
ask DOJ. [music] There is concern the
ordinary person, the average everyday
person who might be serving a lengthy
prison sentence doesn't [music] have the
same means, resources or influence to
vie for a pardon [music] and that the
the playing field isn't even anymore.
I read about the the Weinstein case and
of course that's that's the outcome we
want to avoid.
It does make my work harder because then
people don't believe in the whole the
way that I do.
And I want everybody to believe in
clemency as something that can be a
positive force.
That's a fundamental American ideal that
people can change. [music] I mean we are
a nation of people seeking redemption in
one way or [music] another.
I usually get, you know, three to four
pieces of mail a week that will be about
clemency.
This is a letter from
>> [music]
>> a woman in prison. She's been in over 10
years and
>> [music]
>> she says, "Sir,
I am far from the person I was when I
entered the federal system.
>> [music]
>> I mean what we're going to look for in a
case is a story of redemption that
offers that promise.
As early as there was criminal law,
there was clemency. One thing about
clemency is that because it's an
unchecked power of the president, it's
going to reflect the values of that
president. There's some
incredibly selfless uses.
Outside Blair House, the president's
temporary Washington home, extreme
fanatics of the Puerto Rican Nationalist
Party tried to force their way in, guns
blazing, to assassinate the President of
the United States.
Puerto Rican nationalist named Oscar
Collazo tried to assassinate [music]
President Truman and Truman commuted his
death sentence. President Trump, [music]
we all knew before he was elected things
are important to him include loyalty and
celebrity and so it should not surprise
us that clemency has been used for
celebrities and for those who have been
loyal to him.
A system where people with money
get clemency [music] and people without
money don't get clemency
is not justice and it's not really mercy
either.
There is a danger here of the pardon
system looking like a pay-to-play system
and that without paying [music] huge
amounts of fees to well-connected and
high-powered lawyers and lobbyists, you
are not going to have a chance [music]
at clemency. If Weinstein is seeking
another commutation, there's increasing
number of lawyers across America who can
point to successful track records with
the Trump administration.
So these are printouts of the
presidential proclamation for two of our
clients.
This is generally the form that all of
the pardons are going to take in terms
of this administration. And the
president actually will sign those.
I can't imagine that in any of these
cases [music] he's spending more than
10, 15, 30 minutes max on an issue
[music] for an individual pardon. So
generally you've got to find the people
who are in places to actually work on
this on a day-to-day basis, make sure
they have the information they need and
let them do their work for the [music]
president. First thing you open up is
here's the reason this person deserves a
pardon. A lot of times we'll put the
underlying case documents like the
judgment, the things that would go in
there, letters of support.
>> [music]
>> You have to tell a story that hits on
the issues that this president cares
about.
>> Here you have an administration that
clearly [music] has been motivated by
things that have happened in the
criminal justice system that they have
[music] seen to be incredibly unfair.
The president had a conviction but he
also was subject to multiple different
investigations.
So you have a president [music] who's
been under that sort of scrutiny who
understands the impact of that on
individuals. This was a disgrace.
>> [music]
>> This was a rigged trial. And I think
that has to change your view as to, you
know, what is fair and unfair.
>> [music]
>> I do strongly believe that almost
everyone can be rehabilitated. I think
[music] unfortunately Mr. Weinstein has
proven time and again that the more
chances he's given [music] doesn't mean
that he's going to use them to do good,
to get redemption, to pay back his
victims and perhaps [music] at this
point he's out of chances.
This was the third residential memory
care home I purchased [music] for my
expanding business and I had beautiful
architectural plans designed to [music]
expand it. Unfortunately, I had to sell
it because of everything that happened.
So
um there went my business expansion.
Unfortunately, I lost a little over a
million over the course of five deals.
>> [music]
>> So it impacted relationships and there
have been some members in the community
where it ultimately led to divorce.
I was just angry at myself.
>> [music]
>> Angry that I I could trust someone.
And that anger and that depression
spilled out over, you know, into my
personal life. So [music] my kids would
even ask me like "Dad, why why do you
Dad, why [music] do you hate me?"
It's hard to answer that question
to my son.
You know, you just think about could
they be better off [music] without you?
No.
The victims [music] are just lost in
history whereas the fraudsters get out
of jail for free and then
potentially do it again.
>> [music]